_publications/2024-02-17-paper-title-number-4.md, before:

---
title: "A Combined Rigid-Soft Thruster Based on Jetting Propulsion"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-02-17-squid-thruster
# excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2023-04-15
authors: Christoph Stoeffler, Adriano del Río, René Sonntag, Florian Hoffmann, Shivesh Kumar and Frank Kircher
venue: '2023 IEEE International Conference on Soft Robotics (RoboSoft)'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
citation: 'Christoph Stoeffler, Adriano del Río, René Sonntag, Florian Hoffmann, Shivesh Kumar and Frank Kircher (2023). &quot;A Combined Rigid-Soft Thruster Based on Jetting Propulsion.&quot; <i>2023 IEEE International Conference on Soft Robotics (RoboSoft)</i>. 1(3).'
header:
  teaser: /images/overview_squid.png
---

<!-- The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font. -->

Commit message:

format single publication view; add abstract sect

_publications/2024-02-17-paper-title-number-4.md, after:

---
title: "A Combined Rigid-Soft Thruster Based on Jetting Propulsion"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-02-17-squid-thruster
# excerpt: 'This paper is about fixing template issue #693.'
date: 2023-04-15
authors: Christoph Stoeffler, Adriano del Río, René Sonntag, Florian Hoffmann, Shivesh Kumar and Frank Kircher
venue: 'IEEE International Conference on Soft Robotics (RoboSoft)'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
abstract: A new underwater thrust device is proposed in this work that makes use of a soft outer structure in combination with a parallel linkage and driven by a classical actuator. By merging soft and rigid parts, we hope to increase the performance of pulsed jet propulsion that plays a crucial role in attitude control for AUVs. But also simpler models for design and control can be applied by this approach. A specific linkage design for actuation, along with two different soft structures (mantles) are introduced and evaluated in experiments which indicate efficient thrust creation. Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV) experiments show the formation of vortex rings that suggest efficient propulsion, whereby the wider and more flexible mantel is characterized by higher momentum and thrust.
header:
  teaser: /images/overview_squid.png
---
