_publications/2025-02-17-paper-title-number-5.md, before:

---
title: "Design Analysis of a Belt-Driven Manipulator for Fast Movements"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-10-23-belt-manipulator
excerpt: 'This paper is about Tiddies.'
date: 2024-10-23
authors: Christoph Stoeffler, Janne Janzen, Adriano del Río and Heiner Peters
venue: 'IEEE 20th International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE)'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
citation: 'Christoph Stoeffler, Janne Janzen, <b>Adriano del Río</b> and Heiner Peters. (2024). &quot;Design Analysis of a Belt-Driven Manipulator for Fast Movements.&quot; <i>IEEE 20th International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE)</i>'
header:
  teaser: /images/overview_arm.png
---

<!-- The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font. -->

Commit message:

format single publication view; add abstract sect

_publications/2025-02-17-paper-title-number-5.md, after:

---
title: "Design Analysis of a Belt-Driven Manipulator for Fast Movements"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-10-23-belt-manipulator
excerpt: 'This paper is about Tiddies.'
date: 2024-10-23
authors: Christoph Stoeffler, Janne Janzen, Adriano del Río and Heiner Peters
venue: 'IEEE 20th International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering (CASE)'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
abstract: In this work, we propose a new four-degree-of-freedom (4-DOF) manipulator design involving belt transmissions and direct drives at the proximal end of the manipulator. This results into a backlash free, low-inertia arm that enables fast movements. Additionally, the belt routing inside the arm distributes actuator torques beneficially to the joints and allows the use of identical motors under dissimilar joint torque requirements. While the kinematics of the arm and the separation of actuation and joint space are discussed in detail, we also demonstrate beneficial properties for dynamic movements of the manipulator. To obtain optimal motion trajectories, an iterative Linear-Quadratic Regulator (iLQR) was implemented and is compared against a traditional trajectory creation in joint- and actuation space. Furthermore, a stiffness model of the belts in joint- and actuation-space is given to assess a modal analysis in the early design phase.
header:
  teaser: /images/overview_arm.png
---
